---
title: "v0.3.5 released"
author: Mya Pitzeruse
date: 2021-06-07
---

Over the last few weeks I've been making a handful of modifications to the project.
There was some restructuring to make things easier to navigate but as usual... I missed something in the process.
Hence the multiples of releases.
Below, I call out to a summary of the versions and known issues.

- **0.3.2** - issues with extractor and tracker startup.
- **0.3.3** - issues with tracker startup for read-only deployments
- **0.3.4** - Stable
- **0.3.5** - Stable

## Features

### feat(gh-301): add tree command

Occasionally, software systems encounter cycles in the graph.
When this happens, the deps.cloud `topology` query truncates silently (not great).
To help give more information to callers, we added a "tree" command that will return the entire subtree (nodes and edges included).
With the addition of this new `tree` command, we've updated the `topology` command to write an error when it encounters a cycle.
Users will still be able to obtain partial orders... but will need to handle the err message at the end.

### feat(gh-15): support field indexes

Data stored in deps.cloud now has some minor indexing support to improve exploration.
This mostly started as an idea, but was able to grow into a useful implemenation rather quick.
In order to support indexes, we did need to refactor some elements around the database layer.
We currently index a handful of fields (namely, `url` on sources and `language` and `name` for modules). 
This allows clients to quickly search for nodes in their graph and use subsequent calls for traversals.

**New Endpoints**

By adding support for field indexes, we were able to implement the following endpoints in REST and gRPC.

| Description                                       | Endpoints                                          |
|:--------------------------------------------------|:---------------------------------------------------|
| List languages deps.cloud has modules for.        | grpc - `depscloud.api.v1beta.LanguageService#List` |
|                                                   | rest -  `/v1beta/languages`                        |
|                                                   | cli  - `deps get languages`                        |
|  |  |
| Search modules containing the provided name part. | grpc - `depscloud.api.v1beta.ModuleService#Search` |
|                                                   | rest - `/v1beta/modules/search?like.name=xxx`      |
|                                                   | cli  - `deps search modules`                       |
|  |  |
| Search sources containing the provided url part.  | grpc - `depscloud.api.v1beta.SourceService#Search` |
|                                                   | rest - `/v1beta/sources/search?like.url=xxx`       |
|                                                   | cli  - `deps search sources`                       |

### feat(gh-228): move off gogo protobuf

For better compatibility with the standard tooling provided by the community, we moved from the gogo to upstream protobuf.
From a usage perspective, you shouldn't notice a difference.
A big benefit to the project is that we should be able to leverage the reflection API instead of managing a static routing table in `gateway`.

### Upgrade to Node 16

We've upgraded the extractor process to use NodeJS 16.
This is a pretty major upgrade considering the last version we were running on was NodeJS 12.
For the most part, not much changed that impacted the `extractor` process.
There were some minor modifications, but nothing that appeared to impact the overall functionality. 

## Notable Fixes

- fix: refactor the database layer (#293) [3547dc0](https://github.com/depscloud/depscloud/commit/3547dc06008485d52153441e47b8a1b1c92ea7b6)
- fix: use repo url to infer vendor.conf files [f84759a](https://github.com/depscloud/depscloud/commit/f84759a55f97792262041b84aedeeb66886cd255)
- fix: cleanup remaining references to older terminology pairs [49d4fcf](https://github.com/depscloud/depscloud/commit/49d4fcfebcd7e3bc6410aee8361a8fffc033f24f)
- fix: remove warning output for healthcheck [a74639f](https://github.com/depscloud/depscloud/commit/a74639f3c9c5edb97bac562b3534b33ab15c9a5e)
- fix: guard against npe [1ac61b9a](https://github.com/depscloud/depscloud/commit/1ac61b9a16913016d20ad98d23d4c4b36ef5e6da)
- fix: upgrade express-prometheus-middleware [122c3305](https://github.com/depscloud/depscloud/commit/122c3305af67e3d941af946b1cf232b62154bacf)
